<?xml version="1.0"?><!DOCTYPE html><xhtml:html ><xhtml:head ><xhtml:meta  content="xml" name="Keywords"></xhtml:meta><xhtml:title >Add_Website</xhtml:title><xhtml:meta  content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" name="viewport"></xhtml:meta><xhtml:style  type="text/css">
  body {color:blue;}  
  p  {line-height=130%;}
  h1 {text-align:center;}
  h2 {text-align:center;}
  h3 {text-align:center;}
  pre { color:#800080;}
  a:link {color:#0000FF;}
  a:visited {color:#C0C000;}
  nav {
  background-image:url(images/grgcleft2.png);
  position: absolute;
  top :0px;
  bottom:0;
  left: 0;
  width: 240px;
}
  section {
  position: relative;
  margin-left: 250px;
}
</xhtml:style></xhtml:head><xhtml:body ><xhtml:nav ><xhtml:h2 >Contact</xhtml:h2><xhtml:ul ><xhtml:li >Phone: 027 2203796</xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" href="mailto:tony@tony.gen.nz">Email: tony@tony.gen.nz</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="index.xhtml">Home Page</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="addwebsite.xhtml">Add_Website</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="admin_todo.xhtml">Admin_todo</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="admin_troubleshooting.xhtml">Admin_troubleshooting</xhtml:a></xhtml:li></xhtml:ul></xhtml:nav><xhtml:section ><xhtml:a  href="index.xhtml"></xhtml:a><xhtml:br ></xhtml:br><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
ERRATA: Site rules need to be compiled and put into ebin directory
as part of build procedure.  This is not currently part of make rules
</xhtml:p><xhtml:h1  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Add Website</xhtml:h1><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">All code in this section is written in Erlang.  The webserver is cowboy.
This page is not intended as a tutorial for either of these, rather
it is intended to explain how to update the Cowboy webserver as used here.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Edit the src/start.erl program and add the url along with the name of the
configuration program.  The current start.erl is shown here for instruction.
</xhtml:p><xhtml:pre  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<pre >-module(start).
-export([main/1,go/0,start/0,stop/0,load/0]).
%% TODO: go works, start works stop does not.  Why?
%% {&quot;greenrose.co.nz&quot;,greenroseconfig}
-define(APP,website).
-define(SUP,website_sup).

main(_) -&gt;
    go().

load() -&gt;
    application:load(?APP),
    application:start(sasl),
    application:start(crypto),
    application:start(ranch),
    application:start(cowlib),
    application:start(cowboy).
    %% in the test environment mnesia is memory resident so tables need to be set up
go() -&gt;
    load(),
    start().

start() -&gt;
    application:start(?APP).
    %mnesia_procs:do_once().
stop() -&gt;
    application:stop(?APP).



</pre>
</xhtml:pre><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
The configuration programs are stored siteconf directory.  The purposes
of the siteconf programs are twofold:</xhtml:p><xhtml:ul  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <xhtml:li >To separate each site&apos;s configuration into a single file pertaining to that site for better code modularity,</xhtml:li>
  <xhtml:li >To define handlers mapping URL&apos;s to handlers for that type of resource.</xhtml:li>
</xhtml:ul><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">The handler for this site (which is currently static files only) is shown below.</xhtml:p><xhtml:pre  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<pre >-module(tonygenconfig).

-export([routing/2]).

routing(SiteName,DataDir) -&gt;
    ExtSite = lists:append([&quot;[...]&quot;,SiteName]),
    IdxFile = filename:join(DataDir,&quot;tonygen/web_root/index.html&quot;),
    StaticDir = filename:join(DataDir,&quot;tonygen/web_root&quot;),
    true = filelib:is_regular(IdxFile),
    true = filelib:is_dir(StaticDir),
    {ExtSite,
	[
	 {&quot;/&quot;, ajw_cowboy_static, {file, IdxFile}},
	 {&quot;/[...]&quot;, ajw_cowboy_static, {dir, StaticDir}}
	]
    }.
</pre>
</xhtml:pre><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">The data files need to be copied into the resource directory which is clients/&lt;site_identifier&gt;/webroot/  If this directory does not exist for your site it needs to be made.  The site_identifier must match the path in the site configuration file.  In this case &quot;tonygen&quot;</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Now the site needs to be compiled and tested.  Compiling is done by running the command erl -make.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Start the website by running erl and then executing start:go in the development web server&apos;s source directory.  If everything is right it should start okay.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Next put an entry into the hosts file &quot;/etc/hosts&quot; to point back to the localhost.  What is done here is to make this a test host as in test.tony.gen.nz 127.0.0.1.  The easiest way to do this is to copy the /etc/hosts to the local directory, edit it there, and copy it back.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Now the website should show in the test webserver</xhtml:p><xhtml:h2  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Deployment</xhtml:h2><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">The test site has been tested, not the task is to go live.  For a new
website the DNS A record must be changed so that the site can be accessed
by the public.  This is done through your Domain Name supplier&apos;s website.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Next an erlang runtime build needs to be generated and deployed.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Building is done with relx by Ninenines.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">From here my knowledge gets a bit thin, I will update this section
as I learn more about using tar.gz to install a update.  This will
be necessary when updating the production server.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Prepare server by assigning static-ip in /etc/network/interfaces.
Disable lid switch in /etc/systemd/logind if installing on laptop.</xhtml:p><xhtml:h2  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Including Static Pages Into the Build</xhtml:h2><xhtml:em  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">make</xhtml:em><xhtml:ol  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <xhtml:li >Build the static site</xhtml:li>
  <xhtml:li >Copy the pages to the client directory of the website support directory</xhtml:li>
  <xhtml:li >Update the release version.  This is in relx.config.  There is some way of using overlays to do this in relx, but I don&apos;t know how to do it yet.</xhtml:li>
  <xhtml:li >Make the release directory structure by running &quot;make&quot; in the support directory</xhtml:li>
  <xhtml:li >Copy the static pages into release directory by running &quot;make static-pages in the support directory</xhtml:li>
  <xhtml:li >Make a release by compressing release directory. The release directory is the subdirectory containing the &quot;lib&quot; directory.</xhtml:li>
</xhtml:ol></xhtml:section></xhtml:body></xhtml:html>