<?xml version="1.0"?><!DOCTYPE html><xhtml:html ><xhtml:head ><xhtml:meta  content="xml" name="Keywords"></xhtml:meta><xhtml:title >XML Sojourner&apos;s Journey</xhtml:title><xhtml:meta  content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" name="viewport"></xhtml:meta><xhtml:style  type="text/css">
  body {color:blue;}  
  p  {line-height=130%;}
  h1 {text-align:center;}
  h2 {text-align:center;}
  h3 {text-align:center;}
  pre { color:#800080;}
  a:link {color:#0000FF;}
  a:visited {color:#C0C000;}
  nav {
  background-image:url(images/grgcleft2.png);
  position: absolute;
  top :0px;
  bottom:0;
  left: 0;
  width: 240px;
}
  section {
  position: relative;
  margin-left: 250px;
}
</xhtml:style></xhtml:head><xhtml:body ><xhtml:nav ><xhtml:h2 >Contact</xhtml:h2><xhtml:ul ><xhtml:li >Phone: 027 2203796</xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" href="mailto:tony@tony.gen.nz">Email: tony@tony.gen.nz</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="index.xhtml">Home Page</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="intro.xhtml">intro</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="whatsxml.xhtml">whatsxml</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="xmlproc.xhtml">Xml processing</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="namespaces.xhtml">namespaces</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="xpath.xhtml">xpath</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="xslt.xhtml">xslt</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="static.xhtml">static site</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="validation.xhtml">Validation</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="splitpages.xhtml">split_pages</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="insert.xhtml">insert_content</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="build.xhtml">build</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="futuredev.xhtml">FutureDev</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="rest.xhtml">REST Resources</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="upload_video.xhtml">video</xhtml:a></xhtml:li></xhtml:ul></xhtml:nav><xhtml:section ><xhtml:a  href="index.xhtml"><xhtml:img  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" src="images/hw.png" left="250px" width="100%"></xhtml:img></xhtml:a><xhtml:br ></xhtml:br><xh:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">This is the introduction page to my xml diary.  It is not
a diary in the sense of a chronology.  It is not a book in
that it will never be complete.  It is not a blog as I ask
no feedback, look for none and expect none.</xh:p><xh:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Rather it documents my journeys in XML land.  One of
the frontiers of the web.  Many have gone before me and
blazed the trail, but alas it is a confusing place for
newcommers, and I hope that this work, incomplete (and
possibly in places inaccurate) may help the sojourners
who wander this trail after me.</xh:p><xh:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">The question remains as to why would someone choose
this journey?</xh:p><xh:ul  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
  <xh:li ><xh:em >XML is standard.</xh:em> It is a language understood
throughout the computing world.</xh:li>
<xh:li ><xh:em >XML is expressive.</xh:em> XML naturally expresses complex
data structures and is useful for a huge number of applications
from word processors to graphics editiors.</xh:li>
<xh:li ><xh:em >Standard XML tools</xh:em> allow complex analysis of the
data contained in XML files, and the transformation of XML
data between formats</xh:li>
<xh:li ><xh:em >Communication.</xh:em> XML is used to communicate data
between systems for e-commerce.</xh:li>
<xh:li ><xh:em >XRX </xh:em>XML can facilitate the storage of data without
transforming it to another form as is usual in relation database
applications.</xh:li>
</xh:ul><xh:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Yes there is gold in this land, but it comes not easily.
In my wanderings I have frequently found if I did not
understand a concept futher progress in a different area
became impossible, and that there is an order in which
topics are to be followed, so this journey is a trail
and the reader is advised to follow the track in order
to not get lost.</xh:p><xh:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Consequently there is no attempt in this work to deal
with any of these technologies in a comprehensive manner.
That work has been done by others.  Rather it is an attempt
to guide through these technologies in a systematic way.
</xh:p><xh:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">Indeed my journey has been guided by a vision, the same
vision that prompted Dan Cleary and others with XRX.  To
move away from the continual construction and deconstruction
of data structures as usual with application development.
To utilise the Web as the main interface.  To use standard
tools  that are free.  To keep related data together rather than normalised
into separate tables. To build systems that are maintainable,
scalable, and parallel processor friendly.</xh:p><xh:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" xmlns:xh="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">This quest is far from over, but I gladly share my wanderings.</xh:p></xhtml:section></xhtml:body></xhtml:html>