<?xml version="1.0"?><!DOCTYPE html><xhtml:html ><xhtml:head ><xhtml:meta  content="xml" name="Keywords"></xhtml:meta><xhtml:title >Validation</xhtml:title><xhtml:meta  content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" name="viewport"></xhtml:meta><xhtml:style  type="text/css">
  body {color:blue;}  
  p  {line-height=130%;}
  h1 {text-align:center;}
  h2 {text-align:center;}
  h3 {text-align:center;}
  pre { color:#800080;}
  a:link {color:#0000FF;}
  a:visited {color:#C0C000;}
  nav {
  background-image:url(images/grgcleft2.png);
  position: absolute;
  top :0px;
  bottom:0;
  left: 0;
  width: 240px;
}
  section {
  position: relative;
  margin-left: 250px;
}
</xhtml:style></xhtml:head><xhtml:body ><xhtml:nav ><xhtml:h2 >Contact</xhtml:h2><xhtml:ul ><xhtml:li >Phone: 027 2203796</xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" href="mailto:tony@tony.gen.nz">Email: tony@tony.gen.nz</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="index.xhtml">Home Page</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="intro.xhtml">intro</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="whatsxml.xhtml">whatsxml</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="xmlproc.xhtml">Xml processing</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="namespaces.xhtml">namespaces</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="xpath.xhtml">xpath</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="xslt.xhtml">xslt</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="static.xhtml">static site</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="validation.xhtml">Validation</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="splitpages.xhtml">split_pages</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="insert.xhtml">insert_content</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="build.xhtml">build</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="futuredev.xhtml">FutureDev</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="rest.xhtml">REST Resources</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="upload_video.xhtml">video</xhtml:a></xhtml:li></xhtml:ul></xhtml:nav><xhtml:section ><xhtml:a  href="index.xhtml"><xhtml:img  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" src="images/hw.png" left="250px" width="100%"></xhtml:img></xhtml:a><xhtml:br ></xhtml:br><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">Xml validation is the process of checking that
an xml document follows the rules for that type
of document.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">This validation is essential so that the tools (such as templates)
can operate on the data.  Validating the xml is a good way of
preventing errors later.  These validation rules are written in
some form of formalised language.  Many languages can be used
for this purpose, for example a validation template could be
written in xslt and xpath.  Languages commonly used for validation
include DTD&apos;s, XML Schema and RelaxNG.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">The choice of validation languages is influenced by the toolsets
in use, company policy and other considerations.  
In our case <xhtml:a  href="http://relaxng.org/spec-20011203.html">RelaxNG</xhtml:a>, 
<xhtml:a  href="http://relaxng.org/compact.html">compact syntax</xhtml:a>, 
is needed for compatibility
with the emacs editor, however the use of XFORMS requires XML Schema.
Fortunately there exists a utility &quot;trang&quot; converts from relax ng to 
XML Schema.  To maintain consistency between the versions a make file
is created to run trang as required.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">Unfortunately trang does not handle file inclusions as defined in
the relax ng specification.  A program external.erl has been written to
do the file inclusions, the resulting temporary file is then passed to
trang.  The call to external.beam (the compiled version of external.erl)
is included in the makefile.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">The relaxng specification for this project is:
<xhtml:pre >
<pre >namespace xi=&quot;http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude&quot;
namespace ax=&quot;abc&quot;

start = (sitespec | pagespec)

# This file specifies a website definition
# The data specified here is combined with
# the site template to produce the website.

# This data is accessed by xpath, formed
# into nodesets and inserted into the template
# at defined places.  The content of the
# elements is thus fragments of the target language
# (normally html).

# This file validates the site file
# and the individual pages.  These individual
# pages may be in separate files for modularity.
# For this reason xinclude statements are
# accepable page definitions in the site file.

anyElement =
  element * 
  {
    (attribute * { text }
     | text
     | anyElement) *}

nodeset =
  (anyElement* | text )  

pagespec =
(
  element xi:include
  {
    attribute href { text },
    attribute parse { &quot;xml&quot; }?
  } |
  element page
  {
    attribute schema { &quot;site.rnc&quot; }?,
    element name { text },
    element title { text },
    element url { text },
    element keywords { text },
    element pageheader { text },
    element file_headers { text }?,
    element header { nodeset }? ,
    element todo {text}* ,
    element ax:content { nodeset }
  }
)

sitespec =
  element site 
  {
    attribute schema { &quot;site.rnc&quot; }?,

    element siteurl{ text },
    element html_dir{ text },
    element resources{
      element copydir {text}
    },
    element file_headers {text},
    element pages
    {
      element homepage { text },
      element navtype { &quot;mesh&quot; | &quot;list&quot; },
      element contact-phone {  nodeset  },
      element contact-email {  nodeset  },
      element file_headers { text }?,
      element banner_image { nodeset },
      pagespec +
    } +
  }</pre>
</xhtml:pre>
</xhtml:p></xhtml:section></xhtml:body></xhtml:html>