<?xml version="1.0"?><!DOCTYPE html><xhtml:html ><xhtml:head ><xhtml:meta  content="xml" name="Keywords"></xhtml:meta><xhtml:title >xml processing</xhtml:title><xhtml:meta  content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1" name="viewport"></xhtml:meta><xhtml:style  type="text/css">
  body {color:blue;}  
  p  {line-height=130%;}
  h1 {text-align:center;}
  h2 {text-align:center;}
  h3 {text-align:center;}
  pre { color:#800080;}
  a:link {color:#0000FF;}
  a:visited {color:#C0C000;}
  nav {
  background-image:url(images/grgcleft2.png);
  position: absolute;
  top :0px;
  bottom:0;
  left: 0;
  width: 240px;
}
  section {
  position: relative;
  margin-left: 250px;
}
</xhtml:style></xhtml:head><xhtml:body ><xhtml:nav ><xhtml:h2 >Contact</xhtml:h2><xhtml:ul ><xhtml:li >Phone: 027 2203796</xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" href="mailto:tony@tony.gen.nz">Email: tony@tony.gen.nz</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="index.xhtml">Home Page</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="intro.xhtml">intro</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="whatsxml.xhtml">whatsxml</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="xmlproc.xhtml">Xml processing</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="namespaces.xhtml">namespaces</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="xpath.xhtml">xpath</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="xslt.xhtml">xslt</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="static.xhtml">static site</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="validation.xhtml">Validation</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="splitpages.xhtml">split_pages</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="insert.xhtml">insert_content</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="build.xhtml">build</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="futuredev.xhtml">FutureDev</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="rest.xhtml">REST Resources</xhtml:a></xhtml:li><xhtml:li ><xhtml:a  href="upload_video.xhtml">video</xhtml:a></xhtml:li></xhtml:ul></xhtml:nav><xhtml:section ><xhtml:a  href="index.xhtml"><xhtml:img  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude" src="images/hw.png" left="250px" width="100%"></xhtml:img></xhtml:a><xhtml:br ></xhtml:br><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">XML processors of which there are three common types, SAX, DOM, XSLT
tokenise an XML document and these tokens are processed by the user application, not the raw text file.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">SAX and DOM are libraries that make the content of the XML document
available to a host language such as Java.  DOM is used in conjuction
with JavaScript in AJAX web pages.  XSLT is an XML based language for
processing XML documents.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">The API&apos;s for each language are different and independent, but they
exhibit strong simiarities.  XSLT is an important part of many XML tool
chains.  It can be used to convert a document (eg docbook) to pdf through
XSLT-FO.  XSLT delegates the interrogation of the XML document to the
XPATH language.</xhtml:p><xhtml:p  xmlns:xf="http://www.w3.org/2002/xforms" xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude">XPATH is also used as an XML interrogation language by XQUERY. XPATH expressions operate on a tree of nodes.  DOM offers such a tree.  An XPATH processor may operate on a DOM tree, or any other representation it chooses.  Proficiency with both XSLT and XQUERY requires a sound proficiency in XPATH.  The node types of an xml document (as defined by XPATH) are:
<xhtml:ul >

<xhtml:li >
<xhtml:p >root nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li >
<xhtml:p >element nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li >
<xhtml:p >text nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li >
<xhtml:p >attribute nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li >
<xhtml:p >namespace nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li >
<xhtml:p >processing instruction nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

<xhtml:li >
<xhtml:p >comment nodes</xhtml:p>
</xhtml:li>

</xhtml:ul>

</xhtml:p></xhtml:section></xhtml:body></xhtml:html>